The Four Noble Truths of the Buddha are the first and foremost teachings of the Buddha. Among the
four teachings of the Buddha, it is suffering truth and the cause of suffering truth. That is what
the teacher teaches.
What the Buddha said, positive Buddha said, suffering truth, cause of suffering truth, path truth,
cessation truth, and the second from Buddha, when he repeated that teaching, he said, must
understanding the suffering truth, must be understanding the cause of suffering truth, must be
understanding the path truth, and must be understanding the cessation truth.
The cessation truth, that understanding what that means, understanding, is not just saying, oh,
that cause truth. We have to understand what is the suffering truth. Suffering truth, what is
suffering truth? Suffering truth is something that we know, we feel the way this comes from.
What is that means? Cause suffering truth, immediately Buddha pointed out the most sensitive things
of the samsara that we have drilled, or something that we can bear, which is suffering. Buddha
immediately pointed that.
But at the same time, behind that, everything is what in the samsara has cause. It's not just
happened by itself. That must be understand. It must be understanding the suffering truth, must be
understanding the happiness truth, truth, truth and happiness.
And both have to be understand. Both are not just coming by itself. So, it has cause. It has
meanings.
That is the post-foreigner sessions. That reverses our mind, or portraying of the mind, management,
identity, training of the mind.
And then, suffering truth, or cause of suffering truth, is again, must be understanding what is
cause of suffering truth, must be understanding what is cause of suffering truth, what is cause of
happiness truth.
What is that? In the samsara we have happiness. We have peace. We have joy. We have comfortable
life. But that has also cause. It's not just happened itself.
That knowledge is so important. That understanding is so important. That makes practitioners. That
makes ourselves stronger, more open, more gentle, more peaceful.
That understanding is. That knowledge, knowledge. Then we put that into practice. Then it's known
as the true practitioners.
So, this four-novel post-tutis, four-renowned second thought, the essence meaning of the four-novel
, this four-renowned second thought is the essence of the post true truth, suffering truth and cause
of suffering truth.
Once we understand, once we have the knowledge of the suffering truth and the cause of suffering
truth, now we are going to make a difference to our lives, lives for others.
That is known as the path truth. Path truth. That is all these other kundra practices, and I will
practice this all what we practice, is the path truth.
Path truth. This foundation of the practices, as you all know, how we started path truth, how our
journey begins, this excitement, joy, happiness, our journey, how it begins, that practices.
We are going to begin that practice with confidence, joy, and a closeness feeling to the Buddha, Dh
armasambhas. That is known as taking rafus.
Rafuti means, now you settled. You settled or we settled. We are not more wandering in the samsara,
looking, searching, engaging in things.
We are now beginning to settle ourselves right on the places. Let grow ourselves.
We are going to settle with the beautiful assessment, with the support that is known as the Buddha,
Dharma, Sangha.
Something who knows, who went through this, who went through this.
And who discovered that measures, who had similar experience as we do, who have been in samsara,
but change, big change, big change.
And that is what those who knows, who knows, and those who are experts, we are going to contract.
As we know the trouble, and we know the difficulty, we see that solution is something, we contract
with the experts, that we do in the samsara too.
We contract with the doctors, we contract with whoever expert, as that trouble is shooting us, or
shooting's trouble comes.
We contract with that. Similarly, this time, we are going to get the change of ourselves, and then
that is taking leverage to the Buddha, Dharma, Sangha.
And with confidence, with devotion, with understanding of the samsara situation.
Samsara situation that is for us, bothering to us, and samsara situation that is bothering to all
beings, combined with the great body together, that we are going to check the refuge.
And then there is many different ways to check refuge, outer refuge, inner refuge, single refuge, I
am not going to talk all, but there is many different levels of the refuge.
But the essence of many of the refuge is deepening our practices, and devotion, confidence, and
appreciation.
And we are settled now. We are settled. That is what the really refuge is, with that understanding.
And then, we are going to advance that practices.
That practices, now, then that is the second refuge, is known as bodhicata. Bodhicata is advanced
practices.
Raphundi is more kind of like, in a way, more kind of like private, in one way, that way, kind of
more focused, individually, or more kind of like that.
But now, that division is open, and thinking of all the beings, by our love and our compassion.
That is known as, then, the bodhicata practices.
Raphundi practice is the essence of teaching of the Buddha's false teachings, all such as known as
the basic Buddhism teachings.
Raphundi is the essence of the basic Buddhism teachings.
And bodhicata is the essence of the Mahayana teachings, teachings, teachings.
And now, we are actualizing and combining both, such beautiful ways, that within our art center.
This is how to begin all these practices.
And that's why, therefore, again, we all resent the teachings of the Hindu.
We all practice at that. And I'd just like to also encourage, we should restate in our Mundo
practice.
Those who completed, wonderful, one of the best performance in spiritual journeys, or in Varyana
journeys, who complete the Mundo practice.
It's wonderful. Really, it's wonderful. You can remember that. We can dedicate that.
We can remember that achievement even our last breath times. We can remember that.
It's one of the great achievements. Those who are engaging that Mundo practice, I'd like to
encourage.
As other great, those masters, teachers, must be doing. I'd like to encourage to finish the Mundo.
We should think. This Mundo practice is the launch pattern of the Jockey practices.
Launch patterns of the visualization practices. Completion practices, such of the, completion
practice of the characteristics of such.
It is foundation practice. It's a light practice.
Without a doubt, it won't settle. It won't, it's still hovering in the sky.
For that is, that is a witness by all these lineage masters.
We need life story of all those great masters.
Everyone, look, read. You need life story of those great masters.
How they were completely finished.
Mundo practice is not just a burden. It is practice.
It is, it is our achievement, our fulfillment.
It makes ourselves more gentle, peaceful, more relaxed, more fulfillment.
And more thankful, more graceful, a reliable breath.
Therefore, this is what we need to practice.
So I like to encourage everyone, because this is teacher practices or the Jockey teachings.
But Jockey practice is always best and make difference by the basic foundation practices.
So therefore, again, it's so important, Mundo practices.
And then I will show that maybe more about Bodhicata and so forth in the next few days or these
times.
I would like to talk, let it be reminded that to all of us that we need to do this step.
But with those understanding, again I go back to the teaching itself.